Initial AWS Lambda documentation (#13245)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/lambda/registration.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Register Lambda Functions
description: >-
  This topic describes how to register AWS Lambda functions with Consul service mesh.
---

> # Registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Register Lambda Functions
```

Registering AWS Lambda functions into Consul requires:
1. Registering a service into Consul.
2. Writing a [service defaults configuration entry](/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults) for the Lambda.

To keep this configuration up to date, we recommend using the [Lambda registrator](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-aws-consul-lambda-registrator)
to automatically synchronize Lambda state into Consul. Lambda Registrator
automatically registers, reconfigures, and deregisters Lambdas based on the
[Lambda's tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-tags.html).

Lambdas can also be manually registered into Consul when using Lambda
registrator is not possible.

## Prerequisites

### Enable the Serverless Plugin

Lambda integration is only available in Consul 1.12.1 and later. It requires
including `connect { enable_serverless_plugin = true, connect = true }` in the
configuration for all Consul clients.

### Allow Envoy to Invoke the Lambda

The Envoy proxy that invokes Lambda must have the `lambda:InvokeFunction` AWS IAM
permissions to invoke the Lambda. The policy for invoking a Lambda will look

> like the following:

Author: I slightly tweaked your wording to make this accurate.

2. Lambda registrator determines how to reconcile Lambda's control plane state
   with Consul state and ensures they are in sync by registering, updating and
   deregistering Lambda services.

### Deploy Lambda Registrator

#### Deploy Lambda Registrator

Here is an example usage of the Lambda registrator terraform module:
```hcl
module "lambda-registrator" {
  source  = "hashicorp/consul-lambda-registrator/aws//modules/lambda-registrator"
  name = "consul-lambda-registrator"
  consul_http_addr = "https://consul.example.com:8501"
  ca_cert_path = aws_ssm_parameter.ca-cert.name
  http_token_path = aws_ssm_parameter.acl-token.name
}
```

Deploy Lambda registrator with `terraform apply`.

#### Optional: Store the CA Certificate in Parameter Store

When Consul making request to the [HTTP API](/api-docs) over HTTPS, Lambda
registrator uses a CA Certificate stored in Parameter Store. Consul’s Server CA
can be stored into Parameter Store by applying the following Terraform:

```hcl
resource "aws_ssm_parameter" "ca-cert" {
  name        = "/lambda-registrator/ca-cert"
  type        = "SecureString"
  value       = <VALUE>
}
```

#### Optional: Store the ACL Token in Parameter Store

> When Consul has ACLs enabled, Lambda registrator uses an ACL token stored in
> Parameter Store. This can be done with the CLI, API, or Terraform provider.
> With the CLI, it is done by:
> 1. Write the following to rules.hcl:
> ```hcl
> service_prefix "" {
>   policy = "write"
> }
> ```
> 
> 2. Create the policy with `consul acl policy create -name "lambda-registrator-policy" -rules @rules.hcl`.
> 3. Create the token with `consul acl token create -policy-name "lambda-registrator-policy"`.
> 4. Store the token in Parameter Store by applying the following Terraform:
> ```hcl
> resource "aws_ssm_parameter" "acl-token" {
>   name        = "/lambda-registrator/acl-token"
>   type        = "SecureString"
>   value       = <VALUE>
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If [Consul access control lists (ACLs)](/docs/security/acl) are enabled, Lambda registrator must present an ACL token stored in Parameter Store to access resources. You can use the Consul CLI, API, or the Terraform provider to facilitate the ACL workflow. The following procedure describes how to create and store a token from the command line:

1. Create an ACL policy that includes the following rule: 
    <CodeBlockConfig filename="rules.hcl">
    ```hcl
         service_prefix "" {
         policy = "write"
     }
    ```
    </CodeBlockConfig>
1. Issue `consul acl policy create` command to create the policy. The following example creates a policy called `lambda-registrator-policy` containing permissions specified in `rules.hcl`:   
    ```shell-session
     $ `consul acl policy create -name "lambda-registrator-policy" -rules @rules.hcl`
    ```
1. Issue the `consul acl token create` command to create the token. The following example creates a token linked to the `lambda-registrator-policy` policy:  
    ```shell-session
     $ `consul acl token create -policy-name "lambda-registrator-policy"`
    ```
1. Store the token in Parameter Store by applying the following Terraform:
    ```hcl
    resource "aws_ssm_parameter" "acl-token" {
        name        = "/lambda-registrator/acl-token"
        type        = "SecureString"
        value       = <VALUE>
     }
    ```
```
Trying conform to the style guide and make the examples easier to work with.

> #### Configuration Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Lambda Registrator Configuration Options
```

> | Name | Type |  Description |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Name | Type |  Description |
```
I'm not too clear on what the `Type` column refers to. I would expect the contents of this column to be something like `string` or `boolean`. Does `Implementation` make more sense for the column header? Would it be more valuable to keep it as `Type` and change the contents of the table?

Author: I removed the type column. I agree it doesn't add very much value.

| - | - | - | - |

> | `name` | Configuring AWS services | This is used to name Lambda registrator’s Lambda function and to construct the Identity and Access Management (IAM) role and policy names used by the Lambda function. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `name` | Configuring AWS services | Specifies the name name of the Lambda function associated with the Lambda registrator. The name is also used to construct the Identity and Access Management (IAM) role and policy names used by the Lambda function. |
```
Is that correct? Do you deploy an instance of the registrator per function?

> | `schedule_frequency_in_minutes` | Configuring AWS services | The interval EventBridge uses to trigger a full synchronization. This defaults to 5 minutes. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `schedule_frequency_in_minutes` | Configuring AWS services | Specifies the interval in minutes that EventBridge uses to trigger a full synchronization. Default is `5`. |
```

| `timeout` |Configuring AWS services | The maximum number of seconds Lambda registrator can run per invocation before timing out. |

> | `consul_http_addr` | Runtime | This is directly used to configure the Consul API client. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `consul_http_addr` | Runtime | Specifies the address of the Consul API client. |
```
I'm not actually clear what this does. Does it specify the bind address for Consul API clients?

Author: Yeah, you are right. This is better.

> | `consul_ca_cert_path` | Runtime | This parameter only needs to be set when the Consul server is configured to use TLS. Its value is the AWS Parameter Store path to the CA Certificate for the Consul Cluster Lambda registrator uses. At startup, Lambda registrator pulls the CA Certificate at this path from Parameter Store, writes the certificate to the filesystem and stores the path of that file in `CONSUL_CACERT`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `consul_ca_cert_path` | Runtime | Specifies the AWS Parameter Store path to the CA certificate for the Consul cluster Lambda registrator uses. This parameter is only required when the Consul server is configured to use TLS. At startup, Lambda registrator pulls the CA certificate at this path from Parameter Store, writes the certificate to the filesystem and stores the path of that file in `CONSUL_CACERT`.  Also see [Optional: Store the CA Certificate in Parameter Store](#optional-store-the-ca-certificate-in-parameter-store)|
```
This is related to the optional configuration, correct?

> | `consul_http_token_path` | Runtime |  This parameter only needs to be set when the Consul server has ACLs enabled. Its value is an AWS Parameter Store path to the ACL Token Lambda registrator uses. It is used to fetch an ACL token from Parameter Store and is stored in the `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `consul_http_token_path` | Runtime |  Specifies the AWS Parameter Store path to the ACL Token Lambda registrator uses. This parameter only required when ACLs are enabled for the Consul server. It is used to fetch an ACL token from Parameter Store and is stored in the `CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable. Also see [Optional: Store the ACL Token in Parameter Store](#optional-store-the-acl-token-in-parameter-store)|
```

> | `node_name` | Runtime |  The Consul node name that Lambdas will be registered to. This defaults to "lambdas". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `node_name` | Runtime |  The Consul node name that Lambdas will be registered to. This defaults to `lambdas`. |
```

| `enterprise` | Runtime |  <EnterpriseAlert inline />Determines if the Consul server at `consul_http_addr` is running open source or enterprise. |
| `partitions` | Runtime |  <EnterpriseAlert inline />The partitions that Lambda registrator manages. |

> ### Registering Lambdas
> 
> #### Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Register Lambda Functions
```

> Lambda registrator registers Lambdas into Consul, no matter how they are
> deployed, as long as they’re [tagged](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-tags.html) correctly. The following example uses
> Terraform, but deploying a Lambda with CloudFormation, the AWS user
> interface, and Cloud Development Kit (CDK) works too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lambda registrator registers Lambda functions into Consul, regardless of how the functions are
deployed. The following procedure describes how to register Lambda functions with the Lambda registrator using Terraform, but you can also deploy a Lambda function with CloudFormation, the AWS user
interface, or Cloud Development Kit (CDK):

1. Add the `aws_lambda_function` resource to your Terraform configuration and specify the name of the Lambda function. 
1. Add a `tags` block to the resource and specify the tags you want to use to register the function (refer to [Supported Tags](#supported-tags). 

In the following example, the `example` Lambda function is registered using the `enabled`, `payload-passthrough`, and `invocation-mode` tags:  
```
The goal with this suggestion is to provide steps that the user can follow.

| `<PREFIX>/payload-passthrough` | Determines if the body Envoy receives is converted to JSON or directly passed to Lambda. This attribute is optional and defaults to `false`. |
| `<PREFIX>/invocation-mode` | Specifies the [Lambda invocation mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/operatorguide/invocation-modes.html) Consul uses to invoke the Lambda. This tag will default to `SYNCHRONOUS`, but also supports `ASYNCHRONOUS` invocations. |
| `<PREFIX>/namespace` | <EnterpriseAlert inline />This tag specifies the Consul namespace the service will be registered in. If `enterprise` is enabled on Lambda registrator, this defaults to `default`. |
| `<PREFIX>/partition` | <EnterpriseAlert inline />This tag specifies the Consul partition the service will be registered in. If `enterprise` is enabled on Lambda registrator, this defaults to `default`. |
| `<PREFIX>/aliases` | This tag specifies a `+`-separated string of Lambda aliases that will be registered into Consul. If this is set to `dev+staging+prod`, the `dev`, `staging`, and `prod` aliases of the Lambda function will be registered into Consul. |

## Manual Configuration

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manually register Lambda functions if you are unable to automate the process using the Lambda registrator. 
```

> ### Register the Service
> 
> `<SERVICE_NAME>` specifies the Consul service name for the Lambda function.
> Replace `<SERVICE_NAME>` and store the following in `lambda.json`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Register the service. `<SERVICE_NAME>` specifies the Consul service name for the Lambda function.
Replace `<SERVICE_NAME>` and store the following in `lambda.json`:
```
I'm getting a little lost. Where does this configuration take place?

```json
{
  "Node": "lambdas",
  "SkipNodeUpdate": true,
  "NodeMeta": {
    "external-node": "true",
    "external-probe": "true"
  },
  "Service": {
    "Service": "<SERVICE_NAME>"
  }
}
```

> Run `curl --request PUT --data @lambda.json localhost:8500/v1/catalog/register`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send the configuration to the `catalog/register` API endpoint to register the service, for example:
    ```shell-session
    $ `curl --request PUT --data @lambda.json localhost:8500/v1/catalog/register`
    ```

> to register the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> ### Store the `service-defaults` Config Entry
> 
> Store the following in `lambda-service-defaults.hcl`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the `service-defaults` configuration entry and include the AWS tags used to invoke the Lambda function in the `Meta` field (see [Supported `Meta` Fields](#supported-meta-fields). The following example creates a `service-defaults` configuration entry named `lambda`:
```

> ```hcl
> Kind = "service-defaults"
> Name = "lambda"
> Protocol  = "http"
> Meta = {
>   "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/enabled" = "true"
>   "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/arn" = "<<INSERT ARN HERE>"
>   "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/payload-passthroughgh" = "true"
>   "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/region" = "us-east-2"
> }
> ```
> 
> Store the configuration with `consul config write lambda-service-defaults.hcl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <CodeBlockConfig filename="lambda-service-defaults.hcl">
    ```hcl
    Kind = "service-defaults"
    Name = "lambda"
    Protocol  = "http"
    Meta = {
      "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/enabled" = "true"
      "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/arn" = "<<INSERT ARN HERE>"
      "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/payload-passthroughgh" = "true"
     "serverless.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/lambda/region" = "us-east-2"
    }
    ```
1. Issue the `consul config write` command to store the configuration entry. For example: 
   ```shell-session
   $ `consul config write lambda-service-defaults.hcl`
    ````
```

to automatically synchronize Lambda state into Consul.

To manually register AWS Lambda functions into Consul, you must register a service into Consul and then write a [service defaults configuration entry](/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults) for the Lambda.

The registrator automatically registers, reconfigures, and deregisters Lambdas based on the
Lambda function's tags (refer to the [AWS tag configuration documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-tags.html) for details about tags).

We recommend using the Lambda registrator when possible so that you can keep the configuration entry up to date.

## Requirements

* Consul 1.12.1 and later

## Prerequisites

Complete the following prerequisites prior to registering your Lambda functions. You only need to perform these steps once.

### Enable the Serverless Plugin

Add the following configuration to all Consul clients:

`connect { enable_serverless_plugin = true, connect = true }`

### Configure IAM Permissions for Envoy

The Envoy proxy that invokes Lambda must have the `lambda:InvokeFunction` AWS IAM

> permissions to invoke the Lambda. In the following example, the IAM policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
permissions. In the following example, the IAM policy
```
Is this starting to sound repetitive?

        }
    ]
}
```

Define AWS IAM credentials in environment variables, EC2 metadata or
ECS metadata. On [AWS EKS](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/), associate an IAM role with the proxy's `ServiceAccount`. Refer to the [AWS IAM roles for service accounts](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) documentation for instructions.

### Optional: Set up a Terminating Gateway

If you intend to invoke Lambda services through a terminating gateway, the gateway must be registered and running in the Consul datacenter. Refer to the following documentation and tutorials for instructions on how to set up a terminating gateway:

*  [Terminating gateways documentation](/docs/connect/gateways#terminating-gateways)
*  [Terminating gateways on Kubernetes documentation](/docs/k8s/connect/terminating-gateways)
*  [Connect External Services to Consul With Terminating Gateways tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/terminating-gateways-connect-external-services)

To register a Lambda service with a terminating gateway, add the service to the
`Services` field of the terminating gateway's `terminating-gateway`

> configuration entry. Refer to [Invoke Lambda Functions](/docs/lambda/invocation) for
> more instructions on how to invoke Lambda functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration entry. 
```
Just tidying up

### Optional: Run a Mesh Gateway

You can set up a mesh gateway so that you can invoke Lambda services across datacenters and admin partitions. The mesh gateway must be running and registered in the relevant Consul datacenters and partitions. Refer to the following documentation and tutorials for instructions on how to set up mesh gateways:

* [Mesh gateway documentation](/docs/connect/gateways#mesh-gateways)
* [Connect Services Across Datacenters with Mesh Gateways tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/service-mesh-gateways)
* [Secure Service Mesh Communication Across Kubernetes Clusters tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/kubernetes-mesh-gateways?in=consul/kubernetes)

When using admin partitions, you must add Lambda services to the `Services`
field of [the `exported-services` configuration
entry](/docs/connect/config-entries/exported-services).

## Automatic Lambda Function Registration

> You can deploy the Lambda registrator to your environment to automatically register and deregister Lambda functions with Consul based on the function's tags (refer to the [AWS Lambda tags documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-tags.html) to learn about tags).
> The registrator runs as a Lambda function that is invoked by AWS EventBridge (refer to the [AWS EventBridge documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-what-is.html) for additional information).
> EventBridge invokes the registrator using either [AWS CloudTrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/logging-using-cloudtrail.html) to syncronize with Consul in real-time or in [scheduled intervals](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-create-rule-schedule.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can deploy the Lambda registrator to your environment to automatically register and deregister Lambda functions with Consul based on the function's tags. Refer to the [AWS Lambda tags documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/configuration-tags.html) to learn about tags.

The registrator runs as a Lambda function that is invoked by AWS EventBridge. Refer to the [AWS EventBridge documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-what-is.html) for additional information.

EventBridge invokes the registrator using either [AWS CloudTrail](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/logging-using-cloudtrail.html) to syncronize with Consul in real-time or in [scheduled intervals](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eventbridge/latest/userguide/eb-create-rule-schedule.html).
```
Is that better? It seemed awkward to me after seeing the parenthetical phrases applied.

![Lambda Registrator Architecture](/img/lambda_registrator_architecture.svg)

</ImageConfig>

1. EventBridge invokes the Lambda registrator based on CloudTrail Lambda events or a schedule.
2. Lambda registrator determines how to reconcile Lambda's control plane state
   with Consul state and ensures they are in sync by registering, updating, and
   deregistering Lambda services.

### Deploy Lambda Registrator

1. Create a Terraform configuration and specify the `lambda-registrator` module. In the following example, the Lambda registrator is deployed to `https://consul.example.com:8501`. Refer to the Lambda registrator module documentation for additional usage information:
   ```hcl
       module "lambda-registrator" {
           source  = "hashicorp/consul-lambda-registrator/aws//modules/lambda-registrator"
           name = "consul-lambda-registrator"
           consul_http_addr = "https://consul.example.com:8501"
           ca_cert_path = aws_ssm_parameter.ca-cert.name
           http_token_path = aws_ssm_parameter.acl-token.name
           }
     ```

1. Deploy Lambda registrator with `terraform apply`.

#### Optional: Store the CA Certificate in Parameter Store

> When Consul makes a request to the [HTTP API](/api-docs) over HTTPS, Lambda registrator presents a CA certificate stored in AWS Parameter Store (refer to the [Parameter Store documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html) for additional information. You can apply the following Terraform configuration to store Consul’s server CA in Parameter Store:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Consul makes a request to the [HTTP API](/api-docs) over HTTPS, Lambda registrator presents a CA certificate stored in AWS Parameter Store (refer to the [Parameter Store documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/systems-manager-parameter-store.html) for additional information). You can apply the following Terraform configuration to store Consul’s server CA in Parameter Store:
```

| `node_name` | The Consul node name that Lambdas will be registered to. This defaults to `lambdas`. |
| `enterprise` | <EnterpriseAlert inline />Determines if the Consul server at `consul_http_addr` is running open source or enterprise. |
| `partitions` | <EnterpriseAlert inline />The partitions that Lambda registrator manages. |

### Register Lambda Functions

Lambda registrator registers Lambda functions into Consul, regardless of how the functions are
deployed. The following procedure describes how to register Lambda functions with the Lambda registrator using Terraform, but you can also deploy a Lambda function with CloudFormation, the AWS user
interface, or Cloud Development Kit (CDK):

1. Add the `aws_lambda_function` resource to your Terraform configuration and specify the name of the Lambda function.

> 1. Add a `tags` block to the resource and specify the tags you want to use to register the function (refer to [Supported Tags](#supported-tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add a `tags` block to the resource and specify the tags you want to use to register the function (refer to [Supported Tags](#supported-tags)).
```

| `<PREFIX>/invocation-mode` | Specifies the [Lambda invocation mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/operatorguide/invocation-modes.html) Consul uses to invoke the Lambda. This tag will default to `SYNCHRONOUS`, but also supports `ASYNCHRONOUS` invocations. |
| `<PREFIX>/namespace` | <EnterpriseAlert inline />This tag specifies the Consul namespace the service will be registered in. If `enterprise` is enabled on Lambda registrator, this defaults to `default`. |
| `<PREFIX>/partition` | <EnterpriseAlert inline />This tag specifies the Consul partition the service will be registered in. If `enterprise` is enabled on Lambda registrator, this defaults to `default`. |
| `<PREFIX>/aliases` | This tag specifies a `+`-separated string of Lambda aliases that will be registered into Consul. If this is set to `dev+staging+prod`, the `dev`, `staging`, and `prod` aliases of the Lambda function will be registered into Consul. |

## Manual Configuration
You can manually register Lambda functions if you are unable to automate the process using the Lambda registrator.

> ### Register the Service
> 
> `<SERVICE_NAME>` specifies the Consul service name for the Lambda function.
> Replace `<SERVICE_NAME>` and store the following in `lambda.json`:
> ```json
> {
>   "Node": "lambdas",
>   "SkipNodeUpdate": true,
>   "NodeMeta": {
>     "external-node": "true",
>     "external-probe": "true"
>   },
>   "Service": {
>     "Service": "<SERVICE_NAME>"
>   }
> }
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a configuration for registering the service. You can copy the following example and replace `<SERVICE_NAME>` with your Consul service name for the Lambda function:
    <CodeBlockConfig filename="lambda.json">
    ```json
    {
          "Node": "lambdas",
          "SkipNodeUpdate": true,
          "NodeMeta": {
            "external-node": "true",
            "external-probe": "true"
          },
          "Service": {
            "Service": "<SERVICE_NAME>"
          }
        }
    ```
1. Save the configuration to `lambda.json`.
```
Does this work better as sequential steps?
